+++
title = 'HB 2552'
date = '2020-12-24'
bill_number = 'HB2552'
session = '2021R1'
chamber = 'House'
status = 'In House Committee'
catch_line = 'Removes limit on number of residents in adult foster homes.'
summary = 'Removes limit on number of residents in adult foster homes. Requires Department of Human Services to adopt rules applicable to adult foster homes providing care to more than five residents. Specifies additional requirements. Requires department to annually assess capacity of residential facilities and adult foster homes.'
relating_to = 'Relating to the capacity of community-based care providers.'
current_committee = 'HHS'
fiscal_impact = 'May have fiscal impact, but no statement yet issued'
revenue_impact = 'May have revenue impact, but no statement yet issued'
emergency_clause = false
vetoed = false
introduced_date = '2020-12-24'
modified_date = '2021-01-25'
bill_url = 'https://olis.oregonlegislature.gov/liz/2021R1/Measures/Overview/HB2552'

[[sponsors]]
name = 'Mark Meek'
slug = 'mark-meek'
level = 'Chief'
party = 'Democrat'
district = '40'

[[documents]]
version = 'Introduced'
url = 'https://olis.oregonlegislature.gov/liz/2021R1/Downloads/MeasureDocument/HB2552/Introduced'

[[history]]
date = '2021-01-11'
chamber = 'H'
action = "First reading. Referred to Speaker's desk."

[[history]]
date = '2021-01-19'
chamber = 'H'
action = 'Referred to Human Services.'

[[history]]
date = '2021-06-26'
chamber = 'H'
action = 'In committee upon adjournment.'
+++

Removes the limit on the number of residents in adult foster homes and requires the Department of Human Services to adopt rules for larger facilities.

[Original Bill Text](https://olis.oregonlegislature.gov/liz/2021R1/Measures/Overview/HB2552)

## Sponsors

**Chief Sponsors:** Mark Meek


## Overview

Removes limit on number of residents in adult foster homes. Requires Department of Human Services to adopt rules applicable to adult foster homes providing care to more than five residents. Specifies additional requirements. 
Requires department to annually assess capacity of residential facilities and adult foster homes.

<!--
Auto-generated by fetch-legislation.ts

Classification: This bill removes capacity limits on adult foster homes and requires Department of Human Services to adopt related rules, directly addressing residential care facility housing capacity.
-->
