+++
title = 'HB 2132'
date = '2024-12-31'
bill_number = 'HB2132'
session = '2025R1'
chamber = 'House'
status = 'In House Committee'
catch_line = 'Directs the Department of Human Services to establish medical assistance reimbursement rates for residential care facilities that are commensurate with rates for assisted living facilities.'
summary = 'Digest: The Act tells ODHS to change the rates at which residential care facilities are reimbursed. (Flesch Readability Score: 67.5). Directs the Department of Human Services to establish medical assistance reimbursement rates for residential care facilities that are commensurate with rates for assisted living facilities. Sunsets on June 30, 2027.'
relating_to = 'Relating to medical assistance reimbursement rates for residential care facilities.'
current_committee = 'HBHHC'
fiscal_impact = 'May have fiscal impact, but no statement yet issued'
revenue_impact = 'May have revenue impact, but no statement yet issued'
emergency_clause = false
vetoed = false
introduced_date = '2024-12-31'
modified_date = '2025-01-22'
bill_url = 'https://olis.oregonlegislature.gov/liz/2025R1/Measures/Overview/HB2132'

[[sponsors]]
name = 'Hai Pham'
slug = 'hai-pham'
level = 'Chief'
party = 'Democrat'
district = '36'

[[documents]]
version = 'Introduced'
url = 'https://olis.oregonlegislature.gov/liz/2025R1/Downloads/MeasureDocument/HB2132/Introduced'

[[history]]
date = '2025-01-13'
chamber = 'H'
action = "First reading. Referred to Speaker's desk."

[[history]]
date = '2025-01-17'
chamber = 'H'
action = 'Referred to Behavioral Health and Health Care.'

[[history]]
date = '2025-06-27'
chamber = 'H'
action = 'In committee upon adjournment.'
+++

Directs the Department of Human Services to establish medical assistance reimbursement rates for residential care facilities that match rates for assisted living facilities.

[Original Bill Text](https://olis.oregonlegislature.gov/liz/2025R1/Measures/Overview/HB2132)

## Sponsors

**Chief Sponsors:** Hai Pham


## Overview

Digest: The Act tells ODHS to change the rates at which residential care facilities are reimbursed. (Flesch Readability Score: 67.5). 
Directs the Department of Human Services to establish medical assistance reimbursement rates for residential care facilities that are commensurate with rates for assisted living facilities. 
Sunsets on June 30, 2027.

<!--
Auto-generated by fetch-legislation.ts

Classification: This bill directly addresses reimbursement rates for residential care facilities, which are housing facilities that provide residential accommodation and care services.
-->
